# GNSS-tree-planter-digitalization
Digitalization of Positioning for Tree Planter systems using multiband GNSS technology.

Project for the Design-Build-Test Course at Umeå University.

### Project Description
Within the forest industry, major investments are being made to digitalize the wood supply chain. Two topics of this digitalization is focused on planting and felling trees. The problem with both these two topics is that they may require that the position of the trees is already known, which in most forests is not the case today.

The Repository contains the source-code for a proof of concept of a system that can evaluate positioning and log them using GNSS technology and a simple Arduino setup.

### Repository contains:
* Source code for the **Base** that continously logs GNSS data from a static position.
* Source code for the **Rover** that is used for logging.
* Scripts for handling the filtering of datapoints from the post-processed (Using RTKLIB) data using the timestamps generated by the *Rover*.
* Scripts for processing the data using the @rtklibexplorer [*RTKBLIB*](https://github.com/rtklibexplorer/RTKLIB).
  * **NOTE:** The post-processing is heavily dependant on the input data, so this static type of post-processing will probably not give the best results.
* Example input / output data that was generated by the system.

### Building the modules
The source code for the **Base** & the **Rover** is divided into:
* c/c++ files for building using [*PlattformIO*](https://platformio.org/) or similar IDE's / extensions.
* Arduino ".ino *one file*" style.
